Friend, you! pray you, a word:
do not you follow theyoung Lord Paris?
Ay, sir, when he goesbefore me.
You depend upon him, Imean?
Sir, I do depend upon thelord.
You depend upon anoble gentleman;
I must needs praise him.
The lord be praised!
You know me, do you not?
Faith, sir, superficially.
Friend, know me better; Iam the Lord Pandarus.
I hope I shall know yourhonour better.
I do desire it.
You are in the state ofgrace.
Grace! not so, friend: honourand lordship are my titles.
(♪music within)
What music is this?
I do but partly know, sir:it is music in parts.
Know you the musicians?
Wholly, sir.
Who play they to?
To the hearers, sir.
At whose pleasure, friend
At mine, sir, and theirsthat love music.
Command, I mean, friend.
Who shall I command, sir?
Friend, we understandnot one another:
I am too courtly andthou art too cunning.
At whose request dothese men play?
That's to 't indeed,sir: marry, sir,
at the request ofParis my lord,
who's there inperson; with him,
the mortal Venus, theheart-blood of beauty,
love's invisible soul,--
Who, my cousin Cressida?
No, sir, Helen:
could you not find outthat by her attributes?
It should seem, fellow,
that thou hast not seenthe Lady Cressida.
I come to speak with Parisfrom the Prince Troilus:
I will make acomplimental assault
upon him, for my businessseethes.
Sodden business! there's astewed phrase indeed!
Fair be to you, my lord, andto all this fair company!
fair desires, inall fair measure,
fairly guide them! especiallyto you, fair queen!
fair thoughts be your fairpillow!
Dear lord, you are full offair words.
You speak your fairpleasure, sweet queen.
Fair prince, here isgood broken music.
You have broke it,cousin: and, by my life,
you shall make it whole again;you shall piece it out
with a piece ofyour performance.
Nell, he is full of harmony.
Truly, lady, no.
O, sir,--
Rude, in sooth; in goodsooth, very rude.
Well said, my lord!
I have business to mylord, dear queen.
My lord, will youvouchsafe me a word?
Nay, this shallnot hedge us out:
we'll hear yousing, certainly.
Well, sweet queen. youare pleasant with me.
But, marry, thus, my lord:
my dear lord and most esteemedfriend, your brother Troilus,--
My Lord Pandarus;honey-sweet lord,--
Go to, sweet queen, to go:
--commends himself mostaffectionately to you,--
You shall not bob us outof our melody: if you do,
our melancholy upon yourhead!
Sweet queen, sweet queen!that's a sweet queen, i' faith.
And to make a sweet ladysad is a sour offence.
Nay, that shall notserve your turn;
that shall not, in truth, la.Nay, I care not for such words;
no, no. And, my lord, hedesires you, that if the king
call for him at supper,you will make his excuse.
My Lord Pandarus,--
What says my sweet queen,my very very sweet queen?
What exploit's in hand?where sups he to-night?
Nay, but, my lord,--
What says my sweet queen?
You must notknow where he sups.
I'll lay my life, with mydisposer Cressida.
No, no, no suchmatter; you are wide:
come, your disposer is sick.
Well, I'll make excuse.
Ay, good my lord. Whyshould you say Cressida?
no, your poordisposer's sick.
I spy.
You spy! what do you spy?Come, give me an instrument.
Now, sweet queen.
Why, this is kindly done.
My niece is horribly in love
with a thing youhave.
She shall have it, my lord,if it be not my lord Paris.
He! no, she'll none ofhim; they two are twain.
My cousin will fall out withyou.
Falling in, after fallingout, may make them three.
Come, come, I'll hearno more of this;
I'll sing you a song now.
Ay, ay, prithee now. Bymy troth, sweet lord,
thou hast a fine forehead.
Ay, you may, you may.
Let thy song be love: thislove will undo us all.
Love! ay, that it shall,i' faith.
Ay, good now, love, love,nothing but love.
In good troth, it beginsso.
(♪Sings)
Love, love, nothing butlove, still love. still more!
For, O, love's bow
Shoots buck and doe:
The shaft confounds,
Not that it wounds,
But tickles still thesore.
These lovers cry Oh! oh!they die!
Yet that which seems thewound to kill,
Doth turn oh! oh! to ha!ha! he!
And dying love lives still:
Oh! oh! a while, but ha!ha! ha!
Oh! oh! groans out for ha!ha! ha!
Oh-ho! A while. Then ha! ha!ha!
Oh! oh! groans out for ha!ha! ha! ♪
Heigh-ho.
In love, i' faith, to thevery tip of the nose.
He eats nothing but doves, love,and that breeds hot blood,
and hot blood begetshot thoughts,
and hot thoughts beget hotdeeds, and hot deeds is love.
Is this the generation of love?
hot blood, hot thoughts, and hotdeeds? Why, they are vipers:
is love a generation of vipers?
Sweet lord, who'sa-field to-day?
Hector, Deiphobus,Helenus, Antenor,
and all the gallantry of Troy: Iwould fain have armed to-day,
but my Nell wouldnot have it so.
How chance my brotherTroilus went not?
He hangs the lip at something:
you know all, Lord Pandarus.
Not I, honey-sweet queen.
I long to hear howthey sped to-day.
You'll remember yourbrother's excuse?
To a hair.
Farewell, sweet queen.
Commend me to your niece.
I will, sweet queen.
(♪A retreat sounded)
They're come from field:let us to Priam's hall,
To greet the warriors.Sweet Helen, I must woo you
To help unarm our Hector:his stubborn buckles,
With these your whiteenchanting fingers touch'd,
Shall more obey than tothe edge of steel
Or force of Greekishsinews; you shall do more
Than all the islandkings,--disarm great Hector.
'Twill make us proud to behis servant, Paris;
Yea, what he shall receiveof us in duty
Gives us more palm inbeauty than we have,
Yea, overshines ourself.
Sweet, above thought Ilove thee.
Have you seen my cousin?
No, Pandarus: I stalkabout her door,
Like a strange soul uponthe Stygian banks
Staying for waftage. O, bethou my Charon,
And give me swifttransportance to those fields
Where I may wallow in thelily-beds
Proposed for the deserver!O gentle Pandarus,
From Cupid's shoulderpluck his painted wings
And fly with me toCressid!
I'll bring her straight.
I am giddy; expectationwhirls me round.
The imaginary relish is sosweet
That it enchants my sense:what will it be,
When that the waterypalate tastes indeed
Love's thrice repurednectar? death, I fear me,
Swooning destruction, orsome joy too fine,
Too subtle-potent, tunedtoo sharp in sweetness,
For the capacity of myruder powers:
I fear it much; and I dofear besides,
That I shall losedistinction in my joys;
As doth a battle, whenthey charge on heaps
The enemy flying.
She's making her ready,she'll come straight:
you must be witty now.She does so blush,
and fetches her wind so short,
as if she were frayed witha sprite: I'll fetch her.
It is the prettiest villain:
she fetches her breath asshort as a new-ta'en sparrow.
Even such a passion dothembrace my bosom:
My heart beats thickerthan a feverous pulse;
And all my powers do theirbestowing lose,
Like vassalage at unawaresencountering
The eye of majesty.
Come, come, what need youblush? shame's a baby.
Here she is now: swear theoaths now to her that
you have sworn to me.What, are you gone again?
you must be watched ere yoube made tame, must you?
Come your ways, come yourways; an you draw backward,
we'll put you i' the fills.Why do you not speak to her?
Come, draw this curtain, andlet's see your picture.
Alas the day, how loath youare to offend daylight!
an 'twere dark,you'ld close sooner.
So, so; rub on, andkiss the mistress.
How now! a kiss in fee-farm!build there, carpenter;
the air is sweet.
Nay, you shall fight yourhearts out ere I part you.
The falcon as the tercel, forall the ducks i' the river:
go to, go to.
You have bereft meof all words, lady.
Words pay no debts,give her deeds:
but she'll bereave youo' the deeds too,
if she call your activity inquestion. What, billing again?
Come in, come in: I'll goget a fire.
Will you walk in, my lord?
O Cressida, how often haveI wished me thus!
Wished, my lord! The godsgrant,--O my lord!
What should they grant? whatmakes this pretty abruption?
What too curious dregespies my sweet lady
in the fountain of our love?
More dregs than water, ifmy fears have eyes.
Fears make devils of cherubims;they never see truly.
Blind fear, that seeingreason leads, finds safer
footing than blind reasonstumbling without fear:
to fear the worst oftcures the worse.
O, let my ladyapprehend no fear:
in all Cupid's pageant thereis presented no monster.
Nor nothing monstrousneither?
Nothing, but our undertakings;when we vow to weep seas,
live in fire, eatrocks, tame tigers;
thinking it harder for ourmistress to devise imposition
enough than for us to undergoany difficulty imposed.
This is the monstruosityin love, lady,
that the will is infiniteand the execution confined,
that the desire is boundlessand the act a slave to limit.
They say all lovers swear moreperformance than they are able
and yet reserve an abilitythat they never perform,
vowing more than theperfection of ten
and discharging less thanthe tenth part of one.
They that have the voice oflions and the act of hares,
are they not monsters?
Are there such?such are not we:
praise us as we are tasted,allow us as we prove;
our head shall go baretill merit crown it:
no perfection in reversion shallhave a praise in present:
we will not name desertbefore his birth,
and, being born, hisaddition shall be humble.
Few words to fair faith:
Troilus shall be such to Cressidas what envy can say worst
shall be a mock for histruth, and what truth can
speak truest not truerthan Troilus.
Will you walk in, my lord?
What, blushing still? haveyou not done talking yet?
Well, uncle, what folly Icommit, I dedicate to you.
I thank you for that: ifmy lord get a boy of you,
you'll give him me.Be true to my lord:
if he flinch, chide me for it.
You know now your hostages;
your uncle's wordand my firm faith.
Nay, I'll give my word forher too: our kindred,
though they be longere they are wooed,
they are constant being won:they are burs, I can tell you;
they'll stick where theyare thrown.
Boldness comes to me now,and brings me heart.
Prince Troilus, I haveloved you night and day
For many weary months.
Why was my Cressid then sohard to win?
Hard to seem won: but Iwas won, my lord,
With the first glance thatever--pardon me--
If I confess much, youwill play the tyrant.
No.
I love you now; but not,till now, so much
But I might master it: infaith, I lie;
My thoughts were likeunbridled children, grown
Too headstrong for theirmother. See, we fools!
Why have I blabb'd? whoshall be true to us,
When we are so unsecret toourselves?
But, though I loved youwell, I woo'd you not;
And yet, good faith, Iwish'd myself a man,
Or that we women had men'sprivilege Of speaking first.
Sweet, bid me hold my tongue,
For in this rapture Ishall surely speak
The thing I shall repent.See, see, your silence,
Cunning in dumbness, frommy weakness draws
My very soul of counsel!stop my mouth.
And shall, albeit sweetmusic issues thence.
Pretty, i' faith.
My lord, I do beseech you,pardon me;
'Twas not my purpose, thusto beg a kiss:
I am ashamed. O heavens!what have I done?
For this time will I takemy leave, my lord.
Your leave, sweet Cressid!
Leave! an you take leavetill to-morrow morning,--
Pray you, content you.
What offends you, lady?
Sir, mine own company.
You cannot shun Yourself.
Let me go and try:
I have a kind of selfresides with you;
But an unkind self, thatitself will leave,
To be another's fool. Iwould be gone:
Where is my wit? I knownot what I speak.
Well know they what theyspeak that speak so wisely.
Perchance, my lord, I showmore craft than love;
And fell so roundly to alarge confession,
To angle for your thoughts:but you are wise,
Or else you love not, forto be wise and love
Exceeds man's might; thatdwells with gods above.
O that I thought it couldbe in a woman--
As, if it can, I willpresume in you--
To feed for aye her rampand flames of love;
To keep her constancy inplight and youth,
Outliving beauty'soutward, with a mind
That doth renew swifterthan blood decays!
Or that persuasion couldbut thus convince me,
That my integrity andtruth to you
Might be affronted withthe match and weight
Of such a winnow'd purityin love;
How were I then uplifted!but, alas!
I am as true as truth'ssimplicity
And simpler than theinfancy of truth.
In that I'll war with you.
O virtuous fight,
When right with right warswho shall be most right!
True swains in love shallin the world to come
Approve their truths byTroilus: when their rhymes,
Full of protest, of oathand big compare,
Want similes, truth tiredwith iteration,
As true as steel, asplantage to the moon,
As sun to day, as turtleto her mate,
As iron to adamant, asearth to the centre,
Yet, after all comparisonsof truth,
As truth's authenticauthor to be cited,
'As true as Troilus' shallcrown up the verse,
And sanctify the numbers.
Prophet may you be!
If I be false, or swerve ahair from truth,
When time is old and hathforgot itself,
When waterdrops have wornthe stones of Troy,
And blind oblivionswallow'd cities up,
And mighty statescharacterless are grated
To dusty nothing, yet letmemory,
From false to false, amongfalse maids in love,
Upbraid my falsehood! whenthey've said 'as false
As air, as water, wind, orsandy earth,
As fox to lamb, as wolf toheifer's calf,
Pard to the hind, orstepdame to her son,'
'Yea,' let them say, to stickthe heart of falsehood,
'As false as Cressid.'
Go to, a bargain made: seal it,seal it; I'll be the witness.
Here I hold your hand,here my cousin's.
If ever you provefalse one to another,
since I have taken such painsto bring you together,
let all pitiful goers-betweenbe called to the world's end
after my name; callthem all Pandars;
let all constantmen be Troiluses,
all false women Cressids, andall brokers-between Pandars!
say, amen.
Amen.
Amen. Whereupon I will showyou a chamber with a bed;
which bed, because itshall not speak of your
pretty encounters, pressit to death: away!
And Cupid grant alltongue-tied maidens here
Bed, chamber, Pandarto provide this gear!
Now, princes, for theservice I have done,
The advantage of the timeprompts me aloud
To call for recompense.Appear it to your mind
That, through the sight Ibear in things to love,
I have abandon'd Troy,left my possession,
Incurr'd a traitor's name;exposed myself,
From certain and possess'dconveniences,
To doubtful fortunes;sequestering from me all
That time, acquaintance,custom and condition
Made tame and mostfamiliar to my nature,
And here, to do youservice, am become
As new into the world,strange, unacquainted:
I do beseech you, as inway of taste,
To give me now a littlebenefit,
Out of those manyregister'd in promise,
Which, you say, live tocome in my behalf.
What wouldst thou of us,Trojan? make demand.
You have a Trojanprisoner, call'd Antenor,
Yesterday took: Troy holdshim very dear.
Oft have you--often haveyou thanks therefore--
Desired my Cressid inright great exchange,
Whom Troy hath still denied:
but this Antenor, I know, issuch a wrest in their affairs
That their negotiationsall must slack,
Wanting his manage; andthey will almost
Give us a prince of blood,a son of Priam,
In change of him: let himbe sent, great princes,
And he shall buy mydaughter; and her presence
Shall quite strike off allservice I have done,
In most accepted pain.
Let Diomedes bear him,
And bring us Cressidhither: Calchas shall have
What he requests of us.Good Diomed,
Furnish you fairly forthis interchange:
Withal bring word ifHector will to-morrow
Be answer'd in hischallenge: Ajax is ready.
This shall I undertake;and 'tis a burden
Which I am proud to bear.
Achilles stands i' theentrance of his tent:
Please it our general topass strangely by him,
As if he were forgot; and,princes all,
Lay negligent and looseregard upon him:
I will come last. 'Tislike he'll question me
Why such unplausive eyesare bent on him:
If so, I have derisionmedicinable,
To use between yourstrangeness and his pride,
Which his own will shallhave desire to drink:
It may be good: pride hathno other glass
To show itself but pride,for supple knees
Feed arrogance and are theproud man's fees.
We'll execute yourpurpose, and put on
A form of strangeness aswe pass along:
So do each lord, andeither greet him not,
Or else disdainfully,which shall shake him more
Than if not look'd on. Iwill lead the way.
Supple knead.
What, comes the general tospeak with me?
You know my mind, I'llfight no more 'gainst Troy.
What says Achilles? wouldhe aught with us?
Would you, my lord, aughtwith the general?
No.
Nothing, my lord.
The better.
Good day, good day.
How do you? how do you?
What, does the cuckoldscorn me?
How now, Patroclus!
Good morrow, Ajax.
Ha?
Good morrow.
Ay, and good next day too.
What mean these fellows?Know they not Achilles?
They pass by strangely:they were used to bend
To send their smilesbefore them to Achilles;
To come as humbly as theyused to creep
To holy altars.
What, am I poor of late?
'Tis certain, greatness, oncefall'n out with fortune,
Must fall out with mentoo: what the declined is
He shall as soon read inthe eyes of others
As feel in his own fall;for men, like butterflies,
Show not their mealy wingsbut to the summer,
And not a man, for beingsimply man,
Hath any honour, buthonour for those honours
That are without him, asplace, riches, favour,
Prizes of accident as oftas merit:
Which when they fall, asbeing slippery standers,
The love that lean'd onthem as slippery too,
Do one pluck down anotherand together
Die in the fall. But 'tisnot so with me:
Fortune and I are friends:I do enjoy
At ample point all that Idid possess,
Save these men's looks;who do, methinks,
find out Something not worthin me such rich beholding
As they have often given.Here is Ulysses;
I'll interrupt hisreading.
How now Ulysses!
Now, great Thetis' son!
What are you reading?
A strange fellow here
Writes me: 'That man, howdearly ever parted,
How much in having, orwithout or in,
Cannot make boast to havethat which he hath,
Nor feels not what heowes, but by reflection;
As when his virtuesshining upon others
Heat them and they retortthat heat again
To the first giver.'
This is not strange,Ulysses.
The beauty that is bornehere in the face
The bearer knows not, butcommends itself
To others' eyes; nor doththe eye itself,
That most pure spirit ofsense, behold itself,
Not going from itself; buteye to eye opposed
Salutes each other witheach other's form;
For speculation turns notto itself,
Till it hath travell'd andis mirror'd there
Where it may see itself.This is not strange at all.
I do not strain at theposition,--
It is familiar,--but atthe author's drift;
Who, in his circumstance,expressly proves
That no man is the lord ofany thing,
Though in and of him therebe much consisting,
Till he communicate hisparts to others:
Nor doth he of himselfknow them for aught
Till he behold them form'din the applause
Where they're extended;who, like an arch,
reverberates
The voice again, or, likea gate of steel
Fronting the sun, receivesand renders back
His figure and his heat. Iwas much wrapt in this;
And apprehended hereimmediately
The unknown Ajax.
Heavens, what a man isthere! a very horse,
That has he knows not what.Nature, what things there are
Most abject in regard anddear in use!
What things again mostdear in the esteem
And poor in worth! Nowshall we see to-morrow--
An act that very chancedoth throw upon him--
Ajax renown'd. O heavens,what some men do,
While some men leave todo!
How some men creep inskittish fortune's hall,
Whiles others play theidiots in her eyes!
How one man eats intoanother's pride,
While pride is fasting inhis wantonness!
To see these Grecianlords!--why, even already
They clap the lubber Ajaxon the shoulder,
As if his foot were onbrave Hector's breast
And great Troy shrieking.
I do believe it; for theypass'd by me
As misers do by beggars,neither gave to me
Good word nor look: what,are my deeds forgot?
Time hath, my lord, awallet at his back,
Wherein he puts alms foroblivion,
A great-sized monster ofingratitudes:
Those scraps are good deedspast; which are devour'd
As fast as they are made,forgot as soon
As done: perseverance,dear my lord,
Keeps honour bright: tohave done is to hang
Quite out of fashion,like a rusty mail
In monumental mockery.Take the instant way;
For honour travels in astrait so narrow,
Where one but goes abreast:keep then the path;
For emulation hath athousand sons
That one by one pursue: ifyou give way,
Or hedge aside from thedirect forthright,
Like to an enter'd tide,they all rush by
And leave you hindmost;
Or like a gallant horsefall'n in first rank,
Lie there for pavement tothe abject rear,
O'er-run and trampled on:then what they do in present,
Though less than yours inpast, must o'ertop yours;
For time is like afashionable host
That slightly shakes hisparting guest by the hand,
And with his armsoutstretch'd, as he would fly,
Grasps in the comer:welcome ever smiles,
And farewell goes out sighing.O, let not virtue seek
Remuneration for the thingit was;
For beauty, wit,
High birth, vigour ofbone, desert in service,
Love, friendship, charity,are subjects all
To envious andcalumniating time.
One touch of nature makesthe whole world kin,
That all with one consentpraise new-born gawds,
Though they are made andmoulded of things past,
And give to dust that is alittle gilt
More laud than gilto'er-dusted.
The present eye praisesthe present object.
Then marvel not, thougreat and complete man,
That all the Greeks beginto worship Ajax;
Since things in motionsooner catch the eye
Than what not stirs. Thecry went once on thee,
And still it might, andyet it may again,
If thou wouldst not entombthyself alive
And case thy reputation inthy tent;
Whose glorious deeds, butin these fields of late,
Made emulous missions'mongst the gods themselves
And drave great Mars tofaction.
Of this my privacy
I have strong reasons.
But 'gainst your privacy
The reasons are morepotent and heroical:
'Tis known, Achilles, thatyou are in love
With one of Priam'sdaughters.
Ha! known!
Is that a wonder?
The providence that's in awatchful state
Knows almost every grainof Plutus' gold,
Finds bottom in theuncomprehensive deeps,
Keeps place with thoughtand almost, like the gods,
Does thoughts unveil intheir dumb cradles.
There is a mystery--in thesoul of state
with whom relation-- Durst nevermeddle;
Which hath an operationmore divine
Than breath or pen cangive expressure to:
All the commerce that youhave had with Troy
As perfectly is ours asyours, my lord;
And better would it fitAchilles much
To throw down Hector thanPolyxena:
But it must grieve youngPyrrhus now at home,
When fame shall in ourislands sound her trump,
And all the Greekish girlsshall tripping sing,
'Great Hector's sister didAchilles win,
But our great Ajax bravelybeat down him.'
Farewell, my lord: I asyour lover speak;
The fool slides o'er theice that you should break.
To this effect, Achilles,have I moved you:
A woman impudent andmannish grown
Is not more loathed thanan effeminate man
In time of action. I standcondemn'd for this;
They think my littlestomach to the war
And your great love to merestrains you thus:
Sweet, rouse yourself; andthe weak wanton Cupid
Shall from your neckunloose his amorous fold,
And, like a dew-drop fromthe lion's mane,
Be shook to air.
Shall Ajax fight withHector?
Ay, and perhaps receivemuch honour by him.
I see my reputation is atstake
My fame is shrewdly gored.
O, then, beware;
Those wounds heal ill thatmen do give themselves:
Omission to do what isnecessary
Seals a commission to ablank of danger;
And danger, like an ague,subtly taints
Even then when we sit idlyin the sun.
Go call Thersites hither,sweet Patroclus:
I'll send the fool to Ajaxand desire him
To invite the Trojan lordsafter the combat
To see us here unarm'd: Ihave a woman's longing,
An appetite that I am sickwithal,
To see great Hector in hisweeds of peace,
To talk with him and tobehold his visage,
Even to my full of view.
A labour saved!
A wonder!
What?
Ajax goes up and down thefield, asking for himself.
How so?
He must fight singlyto-morrow with Hector,
and is so prophetically proudof an heroical cudgelling
that he raves insaying nothing.
Stalks up anddown like a peacock,
--a stride and a stand:
The man's undone forever; forif Hector break not his neck
i' the combat, he'll break't himself in vain-glory.
He knows not me: Isaid 'Good morrow,
Ajax;' and he replies'Thanks, Agamemnon.'
What think you of this man thattakes me for the general?
He's grown a very land-fish,language-less, a monster.
Thou must be my ambassadorto him, Thersites.
Who, I? why, he'llanswer nobody;
he professes not answering:speaking is for beggars;
he wears his tongue in's arms.I will put on his presence:
let Patroclus makedemands to me,
you shall see thepageant of Ajax.
To him, Patroclus;
tell him I humbly desirethe valiant Ajax
to invite the mostvalorous Hector
to come unarmedto my tent,
and to procure safe-conduct forhis person of the magnanimous
and most illustrioussix-or-seven-times-honoure d
captain-general of theGrecian army, Agamemnon,
et cetera. Do this.
Jove bless great Ajax!
Hum!
I come from the worthyAchilles,--
Ha!
Who most humbly desires you toinvite Hector to his tent,--
Hum!
And to procure safe-conductfrom Agamemnon.
Agamemnon!
Ay, my lord.
Ha!
What say you to't?
God b' wi' you, with allmy heart.
Your answer, sir.
If to-morrow be a fairday, by eleven o'clock
it will go one way or other:howsoever, he shall pay for me
ere he has me.
Your answer, sir.
Fare you well, with all myheart.
Why, but he is not in thistune, is he?
No, but he's out o' tunethus. What music will be in
him when Hector hasknocked out his brains,
I know not;
Come, thou must deliver aletter to him straight.
Let me carry another to hishorse; for that's the more
capable creature.
My mind is troubled, likea fountain stirr'd;
And I myself see not thebottom of it.
Would the fountain of yourmind were clear again,
that I might water an assat it! I had rather be a
tick in a sheep than sucha valiant ignorance.